Now, let's differentiate the real time operating system and the general purpose operating system in terms
of task scheduling
. 
GPOS-Task scheduling:
GPOS is programmed to handle scheduling in such a way that it manages to achieve
high throughput. 
Throughput means-the total number of processes that complete their execution per unit time.

Sometimes execution of high priority process will get delayed in order to serve 5 or 6 low priority
task. High throughput is achieved by serving 5 lower priority tasks than by serving a single high priority
one.

So, if 5 or 6 low priority tasks are waiting to run, so then it will delay the high priority task
and it will allow the lower priority task to run because, in order to maintain the higher throughput.

So, In a GPOS, the scheduler typically uses a fairness policy to dispatch threads and processes onto the
CPU.

Such a policy enables the high over all throughput required by desktop and server applications no problem. But
offers no guarantees that high priority, time critical threads or processes will execute in preference to
lower-priority threads.

On the other hand in RTOS, Threads execute in the order of their priority.If a high-priority thread
becomes ready to run,it will take over the CPU from any lower-priority thread that may be executing .

Here a high priority thread gets executed over the low priority ones. All "low priority thread execution" will get paused.
A high priority thread execution will get override only if a request comes from an even higher priority threads.

So, Does that mean, real time operating systems are very poor in delivering throughput?

The fact is a real time operating systems may yield less throughput than the general purpose OS, because it always
favors the high priority task to execute first, but that doesn't mean, it has a very poor throughput!

Because, these two operating systems that is GPOS and real time operating systems are used entirely in different scenarios.
The GPOS is always loaded with heavy processes and more processes. But a real time operating systems
most of the time is loaded with less number of tasks. So,a throughput is actually relative to the load of
the system. 

A Quality RTOS will still deliver decent overall throughput but can sacrifice throughput for being deterministic
or to achieve predictability.

So to a RTOS, achieving perfectibility or time deterministic nature is more important than throughput,
but for the GPOS achieving higher throughput for user convenience is more important.
